This page is an archive of "guides" and "miniguides" from the scuttle organization.  They are created in pptx format and published as PDF files.

As of 2025, we are moving towards rebuilding the content so that all elements are accessible at the source level.

## Guides

* [3D Printing guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/8229d4248907da1a00189591b9e0524b9b4737cb/docs/SCTL_3DPrintingGuide.pdf)
  * Best practices for printing with our selected equipment, ABS filaments, samples of our printing settings, and common issues with resolutions.
* [Battery guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/8229d4248907da1a00189591b9e0524b9b4737cb/docs/SCTL_BatteryGuide.pdf)
  * Indicates the changes in battery design from version 1 to version 3, details about wiring the battery module, the battery management system (BMS) circuit, and shows assembly steps for the battery with graphics and renderings.
* [Bill of Materials](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/347e7ed26e132915fd544da7abf47246ee838cad/docs/SCTL_BillofMaterials.pdf)
  * A past-published bill of materials, for standard components of the SCUTTLE robot.  Includes a list of 3d printed parts with filenames and descriptions. 
* [Brochure Version 3.0](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/87159519749f1c26796e31aba2aa04de925d15d9/docs/SCTL_Brochure_V3.pdf)
  * Description of key upgrades from version 2 to version 3 of the SCUTTLE robot design.  Includes renderings of the 3D models, describes issues from version 2.0 that were resolved, and higlights changes in individual parts and subassemblies.  This guide can indicate for a user of SCUTTLE version 2.0 which parts are still compatible with the version 3.0 chassis, wheels, encoders, and electronics brackets.   
* [Community guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/8229d4248907da1a00189591b9e0524b9b4737cb/docs/SCTL_CommunityGuide.pdf)
  * breaks down the elements (electrical, mechanical, software, firmware) accessible to the open community and how the elements fit together for the robot design.  Information on where we publish digital assets like CAD models, software version, etc.  High-level information about the vision for the community, and the relationships between private enterprises, student learners, universities, and professional engineers who are weekend hackers. 
* [Contributor guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/8229d4248907da1a00189591b9e0524b9b4737cb/docs/SCTL_ContributorGuide.pdf)
  * Precise steps and thinking processes for engineers who wish to contribute improvements to the community.  Includes (some, but not all) best-practices for publishing CAD models, shopping for desirable off-the-shelf (OTS) parts, and selecting actuators or sensors for design of new modules, to best fit together with our body of publications.
* [Designer Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/30921f394ac1cbffa885681d58343c02c2c11884/docs/SCTL_DesignerGuide.pdf)
  * Has some redundancy with the Contributor guide.  This PDF needs cleanup and topics should be more clearly segmented between design, contribution, communicating in the community, and upgrading designs of other designers.
* [IoT Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/68b96d1abf113f4788b408c9ff95eca8e614704d/docs/SCTL_IotGuide.pdf)
  * Shows our recommended background information for learning IoT (internet of things).  Offers an early dated architecture for naming topics in MQTT, for fleets of scuttle robots and other connected edge-devices to interact autonomously.  Suggested parameters on the robots to publish as a template set of diagnostics information or status for maintenance, charging, and robot activity.
* [Kinematics Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/c8e50dc6ebf7e51be8d5fc9b00a747eeffef6401/docs/SCTL_KinematicsGuide.pdf)
  *  Background knowledge for the mathematics involved in computing the robot positions and movements.  Offers variable names for standard functions like wheel odometry, PID speed control, and computation of curves and displacements in the navigation of the robots.  Uses established mathematics and cites sources for the study & development of robotic navigation.  Indicates parameters and variables that map to the physical robot geometry such as wheelbase, wheel diameter, heading, etc. 
* [Project Example](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/09c197385ad02302e470336e317a1dcff9f09e24/docs/SCTL_ProjectExample.pdf)
  * Built for students who take the "mobile robotics" course at Texas A&M.  The semester project gives 6 weeks for a team of four students to build a new robot function, following 10 weeks of instructional labs.  This example project demonstrates an appropriate scope of work, and a template to subdivide a robotic task into smaller modules.  It covers how to convert a human task into smaller, definitive steps for a robot.  Use this example to design your own robotic project and to create a meaningful project report.  The slides are also an example for the length of presentation, detail level of graphics, and format for clearly communicated engineering steps. 
* [Rendering Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/ab3b99e0fd0c5df324c3b00a351138fd7387e6af/docs/SCTL_RenderingGuide.pdf)
  * Using Solidworks to produce clean images of your 3D models.  This guide shows how to apply our preferred color scheme, to make images that show the details of a part, and to make clear documentation for viewers to understand your 3D models.  It includes the settings and functions in Solidworks Photoview 360 to make repeatable renderings, and our suggested types of images for producing lightweight documentation for online. 
* [Repo Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/a5bac2292ce6e5f424c8e7cb3c559e541a41b52e/docs/SCTL_RepoGuide.pdf)
  * A breakdown of several useful repositories of SCUTTLE software, and what purpose they serve.  Shows how to find some key information and where you may go to make contributions or updates.  Gives examples of the names of various content types for consistency or successful retrieval of the information you need.
* [Software Discovery Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/e04d8b21f3a0d875b1fce359599aafb2158129db/docs/SCTL_SoftwareDiscoveryGuide.pdf)
  * A list of functions that have been built on the SCUTTLE robot using different embedded computers, various IDE's, and softwares installed on your embedded Linux machine.  Shows which capabilities have already been well established and which ones have only seen initial exploration.  These slides were shared with Texas Instruments and with Viam for their developers to choose which robotic functions to design that are supported by the TI Edge AI development board, with purpose-built AI chip.
* [Tools Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/bb81e11bb65fcde2d295c7be2b192554ee326f36/docs/SCTL_ToolsGuide.pdf)
  * The most common tools necessary in a basic laboratory space for building robotics with SCUTTLE.  Our preferred selections of the hand-tools for crimping and soldering, etc.  Brands and models for some specific tools that are widely available, affordable, and long-standing sales such that they are recommended for setting up new labs.
* [Applications Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/643f7fbc4c0f8253074cd48dd5d1d4b2281914e8/docs/SCTL_ApplicationsGuide.pdf)
  * Brainstorming for projects & applications for SCUTTLE robot and developers.  Assists in considering feasibility of projects, integrates consideration of common and available sensors, robust software functions, and available resources for learners.  This is a list of project ideas or application ideas broken down by software projects, sensors projects, and actuators projects. 
* [Assembly Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/eba5baf4dea715fe56dcea01990130568a86a470/docs/SCTL_AssemblyGuide.pdf)
  * Tutorial of all details for assembly of a standard SCUTTLE robot, including parts subassemblies, sequence of proper construction, and details to give attention to while building your machine. 
* [Software Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/eba5baf4dea715fe56dcea01990130568a86a470/docs/SCTL_SoftwareGuide.pdf)
  * A map of the software modules for the standard SCUTTLE included in the university curriculum at Texas A&M.  Information on how to run and test each software that independently tests each sensor.  Good resource for studying the robot by parts when you are troubleshooting your software, or you want to build new functions on top of multiple fundamental functions.
* [Wiring Guide](https://github.com/dmalawey/ScuttleTechGuide/blob/7a4cbbadf78644c8ce394c07ba6f436c8ab1c285/docs/SCTL_WiringGuide.pdf)
  * Detailed tutorial for hookup of the wires for all signals and all power cables for the robot.  Notes about selection of colors, mapping of pins from the CPU to the sensors, and proper grounding between each electronic device on the robot.
* Wiring_Addons - TO BE POSTED
  * Several examples of sensors and actuators that have been integrated on SCUTTLE and verified.  These OTS sensors and actuators are highly common among electronics projects globally, so we have integrated many familiar devices on SCUTTLE so you can copy our design plans.  Selecting connections that match our wiring addons guide will enhance your alignment with our other tutorials and instructions online.

